Update main README (#65)
WayScience/NF1_SchwannCell_data_analysis: README.md

# NF1 Schwann cell data analysis

We aim to characterize cell morphology signatures of neurofibromin in Schwann cells. 
We applied a modified Cell Painting assay on two isogenic Schwann cell lines, one of the wildtype genotype (*NF1+/+*) and one of the null genotype (*NF1-/-*), both from the same patient.
The modified assay stains for four organelles: nuclei, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, and actin. 
We applied CellProfiler pipelines to perform quality control, illumination correction, segmentation, and feature extraction. 

> ![Figure 1](./3.figures/figures/main_figure_1_workflow.png)

Reviewer: I think part of this figure belong in the NF1 data repo, and the other part in this repo. Although, I don't think the story of subfigure `B` would be complete without the ML part. Likewise, Including the ML part of `B` in the data repo may be pre-mature, since the ML mentioned in `B` comes from the data analysis repo (later on).

Reviewer: Part `A` of this figure might fit better in the data repo

Reviewer: Does it make sense to group `segmentation` and `feature extraction` in `B` of this figure?

Author: I think this figure does belong in the data repo since this will be the main repo that people will go to from the manuscript. The data repo will end up be being more of a supplemental or complimentary to the main analysis repo.

> Does it make sense to group segmentation and feature extraction in B of this figure?

Yes, it does because in CellProfiler, we perform both of these steps in the same pipeline. So it makes sense in the workflow to pair them instead of separating them which might introduce more white space.

> > *Image montage of dataset and analysis workflow.* (A) The workflow of our analysis pipeline demonstrates the steps taken from image analysis to machine learning. (B) Example image montages of the Cell Painting channels and composite image (all channels overlayed) for each NF1 genotype. The scale bar represents 25 μM.

Reviewer: I think `A` and `B` should be switched here

Reviewer: Is it standard to have the scale bar length at 25 microM? Could consider also labeling this distance in each figure, or separately as a sort of "legend"

Author: You are right, fixed it! And in this case I am not sure of a standard, but that scale looks to be around what the average cell size is. And I don't do this in this figure but I do it in another figure where the 25 uM is in the photo. In this case, I think it will work either way, but I don't see where adding the 25 uM will make a big improvement at this time. Thanks!

> We segmented 22,585 wildtype (WT) and null cells across three plates and utilized 907 significant morphology features representing various organelle shapes and intensity patterns. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We segmented 22,585 wildtype (WT) and null (Null) cells across three plates and utilized 907 significant morphology features representing various organelle shapes and intensity patterns. 
```

Author: I don't think we need to include the capitalized version as I think it would be necessary if we were using an abbreviation like with wild-type.

We trained a logistic regression binary classifier to predict the NF1 genotype of single cells. 

> The model has high performance, with training and testing data, with overall accuracy scores of 0.85 and 0.80, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NF1 model's accuracy on both the training and testing sets was 0.85 and 0.80, respectively.
```

Author: Since this is a summary, I will keep the statement that the model shows high performance. But, I can reword the accuracy part.

![Figure 3](./3.figures/figures/main_figure_3_model_eval.png)

> > *Logistic regression model predicts genotype with high performance.* (A) Precision-recall curves comparing the final model applied to shuffled (dashed line) and non-shuffled data (solid line). Applying the model to a shuffled dataset performed worse than the non-shuffled data, demonstrating a biological signal between genotypes. (B) Confusion matrices from the training and testing data splits show higher performance across genotypes in non-shuffled data compared to the shuffled data. (C) Accuracy scores show high performance among both genotypes from the training and testing dataset compared to shuffled data. Both panels B and C use the best-performing hyperparameter model for their plots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> *The NF1 model predicts genotype with high performance.* (A) Precision-recall curves comparing the final model applied to shuffled (dashed line) and non-shuffled data (solid line). Applying the model to a shuffled dataset performed worse than the non-shuffled data, demonstrating a biological signal between genotypes. (B) Confusion matrices from the training and testing data splits show higher performance across genotypes in non-shuffled data compared to the shuffled data. (C) Accuracy scores show high performance classifying cells with both genotypes from the training and testing data splits compared to their shuffled counterparts. Both panels B and C use the optimized NF1 model results.
```

Author: 👍 I will include some of these suggestions, thanks!

| [0.data_analysis](./0.data_analysis/) | Preliminary analysis of NF1 data | We find interesting patterns in the NF1 cell morphology data. |
| [1.train_models](./1.train_models/) | Train NF1 models | Optimize the NF1 model by training multiple models with a random search. |
| [2.evaluate_models](./2.evaluate_models/) | Evaluate final NF1 model | After training the final NF1 model, we extract the model performance and model feature importances. |
| [3.figures](./3.figures/) | Generate manuscript figures | We interpret the results from the model by generating figures to include in the manuscript. |

## Steps to reproduce

### Step 1. Clone the analysis repo

```sh
git clone https://github.com/WayScience/NF1_SchwannCell_data_analysis.git
```

### Step 2. Change the current path to the repo path

### Step 3. Populate the nf1_data_repo folder from the NF1_SchwannCell_data repo

```sh
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

### Step 4. Create the conda environments

There are two different environments used in this analysis:

1. [environment.yml](./environment.yml): A Python-based environment meant for performing model training, evaluation, and image montage generation.

> 2. [figure_environment.yml](./figure_environment.yml): An R-based environment meant for generating figures.

Reviewer: Could also mention which modules these environment apply to

Author: I can see this! It gets a bit tricky since the figures module uses both. I think this is the most simple way of explaining which environments go with which data.
